Finally, let's talk about some practical
issues in text classification.
Now that we've seen
the math of Naive Bayes,
we can turn to some real world questions.
How in practice, do we build our
classifiers in the real world?
What classifier you build and what you do,
depends a lot on what
kind of data you have?
Let's suppose you have no training data.
Well, in that case, the right thing to
do is to use manually written rules.
So here's a rule for deciding if
a document's about grain, let's say.
We might say, if the word wheat or
the word grain is there and
doesn't have the word whole or the bread.
So I find a recipe, then we say,
this is a grain document.
Now, manually written rules
are difficult and you careful crafting.
They have to be tuned on development
data and it's very time consuming.
It can take days to write the rules for
each class.
But if we have no training data,
this may be the right approach.
What if you have very little data?
Well, if you have very little data, then
Naive Bayes is just the algorithm for you.
Naive Bayes is what's called a high-bias
algorithm in machine learning.
A high-bias algorithm Is one that doesn't
tend to over fit training data too badly.
It sort of trades off variance or
generalization to a new test set.
So, it doesn't over fit too
much on a small amount of data.
So that's the advantage of Naive Bayes,
but it's also important to get more
data and you can often find clever ways
to get humans to label data for you.
I mean, that's an important thing.
If you don't have enough data,
get more data.
There's also various ways that
we're not going to talk about so
much in this class of
semi-supervised training.
Find some way to use a small amount of
data to help train a larger amount of data
and that's called the bootstrapping.
Another thing that you might do
if you have very little data.
If you have a reasonable amount of data,
now you might try all the clever
classifiers that we'll talk
about later in the quarter.
Classifiers like regularize logistic
regression or support vector machines.
In fact, you can even use decision trees.
Decision trees have advantages and
disadvantages, but
a big advantage of decision trees,
is they are user-interpretable.
And that's helpful, because people
like to be able to modify a rule or
hacking a classifier.
And it's very much easier to modify
your decision tree at a at a role,
change your threshold by hand.
It's much harder to do that with an SVM or
logistic regression.
Now you if you have a huge amount of data,
well, now you can achieve high accuracy.
Although there is a cost, many
classifiers just take a long time SVMs,
especially k nearest neighbors can
be very slow to train a classifier.
Logistic regression can
be somewhat better.
But really,
if you have a huge amount of data,
then it may just be efficient to train
Naive Bayes, which is quite fast.
Actually, if you have
a very huge amount of data,
it may turn out that
the classifier may not matter.
Here is a result from Brill and
Banko on spelling correction
comparing the performance of four
different machine learning algorithms.
A Memory-Based learner, Winnow,
a Perception and Naive Bayes with on
a spelling correction test with a million
words, 10 million words, 100 million and
so log scale and where we're measuring
how accurate the classifiers are.
And you can see that the difference
between the classifiers
is much smaller than the difference
you get by just adding more data.
And in fact, things depending
on how much data you have,
the classifiers cross over
in their performance curve.
So with enough data, it may not
matter what classifier you have.
So a real world system in general
will combine this kind of automatic
classification, whether it's from rules or
supervised machine
learning with manual review of
uncertain or difficult or new cases.
There is some important details for
the computation in Naive Bayes.
One is underflow prevention.
So, it turns out that multiplying
lots of probabilities can result in
floating-point underflow.
We talked about this for
language modeling.
So since by the definition of logarithm,
the log(xy) = log(x) + log(y).
In general, we keep store of our
properties in the form of logs and
we add them instead of multiplying them.
So, we still have the same formula.
Here's the Naive Bayes formula expressed
now in terms of log probabilities
instead of probabilities.
It's still an argmax.
But instead of multiplying a probability
and a product of likelihoods,
we're adding a log probability
with a sum of log likelihoods.
So now, the model is just choosing
the class that maximizes over sum,
sum of weights.
Very simple model.
Finally, we're going to
want to tweak performance and
domain-specific features for
your particular task.
Domain-specific weights are very important
in the performance of real systems.
So for example, sometimes we're
going to want to collapse terms.
Let's say, we're dealing with part
numbers in some inventory task.
Now, we might want to collapse all part
numbers together into a part number kind
of word or chemical formula.
We might want to have just one named
entity called chemical formula.
But other kinds of collapsing such
as stemming, generally doesn't help.
So, you have to know about whether
you need to collapse terms or not.
It's also very important to upweight.
Upweighting is counting a word,
as if it occurs twice.
And so often, we upweight title words or
we might upweight the first sentence of
each paragraph or sentences that have
words that occurred in the title and
made upweight all the words
in that sentence and so on.
So, small ways that can help
in tweaking performance.
So, we've seen a number of
practical things that we can do in
building up a real world
text classification system.